EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

The purpose of this lab was to define software types and practice working with virtualization and Python. 
To learn to define software; describe the two primary categories of software;describe the role ERP software 
plays in an organization; describe cloud computing and its advantages and disadvantages for use in an organization; 
and define the term open-source and identify its primary characteristics. Also to explore careers in information 
technology as well as co-ops, internships, certificates, certifications, industry association and student organization
membership. 

Software
    

    i. Explain the roles of application, utility and operating system software.  
       Give an example of each. 
        Application -An application is any program, or group of programs, that is designed for 
           the end user. Applications include such things as database programs, word processors, 
           Web browsers and spreadsheets.Some examples of applications are Mobile apps. Most mobile 
           devices run on one of two operating systems: Android or iOS. Cloud computing is another
           example. Microsoft Word, Mozilla Firefox, or Excel are some apps that allow the user to 
           word process, access the world wide web, or make use of databases.
 

    ii Explain the purpose of ERP software and provide an example. 
           Enterprise resource planning (ERP) is a process used by companies to manage and integrate 
           the important parts of their businesses. Enterprise resource planning (ERP) is business process 
           management software that allows an organization to use a system of many connected applications
           to manage the business and automate many back office functions related to technology, 
           services and human resourcesMany ERP software applications help companies and individuals 
           resource plan by making use of all of the processes needed with a single system. 
           An ERP software system can also integrate planning, purchasing inventory, sales, marketing, 
           finance, human resources, and more.An example I can think of from my work is MyBiz. Which is
           a portal that allows all the work benefits available from 401k, to health care, to pay choices
           all in one portal (ERP).
 
    iii In addition to the chapter use the following resource: Virtualization 
    and explain the purpose of virtualization and describe how it differs from cloud computing.
           Virtualization refers to the creation of a virtual resource such as a server, desktop, operating 
           system, file, storage or network. Virtualization is technology that separates functions from hardware, 
           while clouds rely on the seperation. If the process stops here, it's not cloud computing—it's 
           virtualization.

Virtualization
     See attachments for Creating Virtual machine

Python
      i. What is meant by the "pseudo-code nature of Python?" (Google "pseudo-code" to gain better insight) 
       Pseudocode is a method of planning which enables the programmer to plan without worrying about syntax.
 

     ii What is an interpreted language vs. a compiled language?
        Programs written with for example C, Perl, or Java makes it easy for people to communicate with one another, 
        because a computer only understands numbers, you need a translator to communicate, and that's what compilers do.
        The difference between an interpreted is in the process. An interpreter produces a result from a program, 
        and a compiler produces a program written in assembly language. 
        
        See attachments (Python 1, Python 2)

Career Exploration
    Attachments :(CollegeCentral)

College Central

Certifications
Certificates and Degrees

Co-ops / Internships

Industry Associations / Student Organizations

CONCLUSIONS

Include your professional conclusion here...
